According to wikipedia an **interlocutor** is “a person involved in a conversation or dialogue”

I use the photo app in a stock smartphone for everything I do — and at some non-zero level this project is all about that. A smart phone is a basic tool of modern life. They contain the most used cameras in history. We buy them for our children because they need them. When the smartphone breaks it disrupts our lives. In spite of the fact that these devices are so central to our lives it is easy to dismiss the output of a consumer product - something that I did for much of the time I have used the iPhone. There is doubt that comes from working with a device that is in the hands of a billion people and using an app that ships with the phone. The doubt because I am not making my own tools. The doubt because I put too much value in the concept of reproducibility. It takes a lot to move past that point. Taking pictures every single day helped.

In the way of all things familiar we accept that they behave in certain ways while ignoring how our lives now bend around them. I have spent many years of my life exploring the edges of the photo app for the glitches and weirdness that is present in all imaging software made by human beings. If you don’t take the intended use case for granted you are free to ask the software to do all sorts of ridiculous things.&

As a series Interlocutor is about both this internal conversation and my engagement with the contributors in developing the set of instructions that allow a person (with a certain subset of phones and some capacity for frustration and disappointment) to take a picture that will match other pictures taken using the instructions to a sufficient degree that these images will form a coherent collection. The interaction between the contributors and the set of instructions is another layer of the conversation. The contributed images form a counterpoint to the images I took developing the instructions.

Interlocutor is an exploration of how the stock camera application of the iPhone can be bent to produce generative photography.  How the sampling and photo stitching engine in the panorama function can be used to sample light and texture. Inputs that are transformed by the software in the phone in ways that the designers of this software did not intend and in ways that the user of the phone may not have predicted.